docs/environments.rst, before:

============
Environments
============
# TODO

Environment Variables
=====================

+----------------------+-------------------------------+-----------+
| Variable             | Description                   | Default   |
+======================+===============================+===========+
| CPENV_HOME           | Where to create environments  | ~/.cpenv  |
+----------------------+-------------------------------+-----------+
| CPENV_MODULES        | List of module locations      |    Null   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------+-----------+
| CPENV_ACTIVE         | Path to active environment    |    Null   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------+-----------+
| CPENV_ACTIVE_MODULES | List of active module paths   |    Null   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------+-----------+

Configuration
=============
The environment variables configuration is stored in an environment.yml file within the root directory of the environment. For example ``~/.cpenv/myenv/environment.yml``.

Variables
---------
You can reference environment variables in configuration files by using ``$ENVVAR`` or ``${ENVVAR}``. Additionally cpenv provides the following variables for you to use.

+---------------+--------------------------+
| Variable      | Value                    |
+===============+==========================+
| ENVIRON       | Path to this environment |
+---------------+--------------------------+
| PLATFORM      | win, linux or osx        |
+---------------+--------------------------+
| PYVER         | version of python        |
+---------------+--------------------------+

Sections
--------
Configuration is broken down into the following sections.

environment
+++++++++++
# TODO

dependencies
++++++++++++
# TODO

Commit message:

Move LocalRepo, add nested parameter, and add RemoteRepo.

docs/environments.rst, after:

============
Environments
============
# TODO

Environment Variables
=====================

+------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------+
| Variable               | Description                                       | Default   |
+========================+===================================================+===========+
| CPENV_HOME             | Where to create environments                      | ~/.cpenv  |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------+
| CPENV_MODULES          | List of module locations                          |    Null   |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------+
| CPENV_ACTIVE           | Path to active environment                        |    Null   |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------+
| CPENV_ACTIVE_MODULES   | List of active module paths                       |    Null   |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------+
| CPENV_LOCALREPO_NESTED | Use nested paths in LocalRepos like module/v0.1.0 |   False   |
+------------------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------+


Configuration
=============
The environment variables configuration is stored in an environment.yml file within the root directory of the environment. For example ``~/.cpenv/myenv/environment.yml``.

Variables
---------
You can reference environment variables in configuration files by using ``$ENVVAR`` or ``${ENVVAR}``. Additionally cpenv provides the following variables for you to use.

+---------------+--------------------------+
| Variable      | Value                    |
+===============+==========================+
| ENVIRON       | Path to this environment |
+---------------+--------------------------+
| PLATFORM      | win, linux or osx        |
+---------------+--------------------------+
| PYVER         | version of python        |
+---------------+--------------------------+

Sections
--------
Configuration is broken down into the following sections.

environment
+++++++++++
# TODO

dependencies
++++++++++++
# TODO
